feat: Editorial review, Relative color syntax (#32004)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/color_value/lab/index.md

slug: Web/CSS/color_value/lab
page-type: css-function
browser-compat: css.types.color.lab
spec-urls:
  - https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#relative-Lab
  - https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color/#lab-colors
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`lab()`** functional notation expresses a given color in the CIE L\*a\*b\* color space.

> Lab represents the entire range of colors that humans can see by specifying the color's lightness, a red/green axis value, a blue/yellow axis value, and optional alpha transparency.

Author: Updated.

## Syntax

```css
/* Absolute values */

lab(29.2345% 39.3825 20.0664);
lab(52.2345% 40.1645 59.9971);
lab(52.2345% 40.1645 59.9971 / .5);

/* Relative values */

lab(from green l a b / 0.5)
lab(from #0000FF calc(l + 10) a b)
lab(from hsl(180 100% 50%) calc(l - 10) a b)
```

### Values

Below are descriptions of the allowed values for both absolute and [relative colors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors/Relative_colors).

#### Absolute value syntax

```text
lab(L a b[ / A])
```

The parameters are as follows:

- `L`
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `0` and `100`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `0%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's lightness. Here the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (black) and the number `100` corresponds to `100%` (white).
- `a`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-125` and `125`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `-100%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's distance along the `a` axis, which defines how green or red the color is.

Reviewer: These values are unbound. `100%` corresponds to `125`, but `100%` and `125` are not the maximum values that are allowed. It is totally fine to set `110%`

https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-4/#specifying-lab-lch

> The second and third arguments are the distances along the "a" and "b" axes in the Lab color space, as described in the previous section. These values are signed (allow both positive and negative values) and theoretically unbounded (but in practice do not exceed ±160).

This is incorrect in the already published docs: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lab but further emphasizing these is more to correct later.

I'll file a separate issue for this.

> **Note:** Usually when percentage values have a numeric equivalent in CSS, `100%` is equal to the number `1`. This is not always the case however — as mentioned above, `100%` is equal to `100` for the `L` value and `125` for the `a` and `b` values. See [Missing color components](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#missing_color_components) for more information on the effect of `none`.

#### Defining relative color output channel components

When using relative color syntax inside a `lab()` function, the browser converts the origin color into an equivalent Lab color (if it is not already specified as such). The color is defined as three distinct color channel values — `l` (lightness), `a` (green/red axis), and `b` (blue/yellow axis) — plus an alpha channel value (`alpha`). These channel values are made available inside the function to be used when defining the output color channel values:

- The `l` channel value is resolved to a `<number>` between 0 and 100.

> - The `a` and `b` channels are resolved to a `<number>` between -125 and 125.

Author: Updated

Let's start with an origin color of `hsl(0 100% 50%)` (equivalent to `red`). The following function outputs the same color as the origin color — it uses the origin color's `l`, `a`, and `b` channel values as the output channel values:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) l a b)
```

> **Note:** As mentioned above, if the output color is using a different color model to the origin color, the origin color is converted to the same model as the output color in the background so that it can be represented in a way that is compatible (i.e. using the same channels). For example, in the above case the {{cssxref("color_value/hsl", "hsl()")}} color `hsl(0 100% 50%)` is converted to `lab(53.24 80.09 67.2)`.

This function uses absolute values for the output color's channel values, outputting a completely different color not based on the origin color:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) 29.692% 44.89% -29.034%)
```

The following function uses the origin color's `l` and `b` channel values for the output color's `l` and `b` channel values, but uses a new value for the output color's `a` channel value, creating a relative color based on the origin color:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) l -100 b)

> ```

Author: The output is `lab(54.29 -100 69.8997)`, according to my color converter app.

The following example uses {{cssxref("calc")}} functions to calculate new channel values for the output color that are relative to the origin color channel values:

```css

> lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) calc(l + 20) calc(a - 20) calc(b - 40) / calc(alpha - 0.1))

Author: `lab(74.29 60.8198 29.8997 / 0.9)`

```

> **Note:** As mentioned above, if the output color is using a different color model to the origin color, the origin color is converted to the same model as the output color in the background so that it can be represented in a way that is compatible (i.e. using the same channels). For example, in the above case the {{cssxref("color_value/hsl", "hsl()")}} color `hsl(0 100% 50%)` is converted to `lab(53.24 80.09 67.2)`.

This function uses absolute values for the output color's channel values, outputting a completely different color not based on the origin color:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) 29.692% 44.89% -29.034%)
```

The following function uses the origin color's `l` and `b` channel values for the output color's `l` and `b` channel values, but uses a new value for the output color's `a` channel value, creating a relative color based on the origin color:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) l -100 b)
```

The following example uses {{cssxref("calc")}} functions to calculate new channel values for the output color that are relative to the origin color channel values:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) calc(l + 20) calc(a - 20) calc(b - 40) / calc(alpha - 0.1))
```

> 

Author: Again, I've basically used what you're suggesting but I've put the explanation above the example line, replacing what was there before to avoid repetition.

slug: Web/CSS/color_value/lab
page-type: css-function
browser-compat: css.types.color.lab
spec-urls:
  - https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#relative-Lab
  - https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color/#lab-colors
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`lab()`** functional notation expresses a given color in the CIE L\*a\*b\* color space.

Author: done

- `b`
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-125` and `125`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `-100%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's distance along the `b` axis, which defines how blue (moving towards `-125`) or yellow ( moving towards `+125`) the color is. Note that these values are signed (allowing both positive and negative values) and theoretically unbounded, meaning that you can set values outside the `±125` (`±100%`) limits. In practice, values cannot exceed `±160`.
- `A` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}} where the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (fully transparent) and `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity), or the keyword `none` explicitly specifies no alpha channel. If included, the value is preceded by a slash (`/`).

> **Note:** See [Missing color components](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#missing_color_components) for more information on the effect of `none`.

#### Relative value syntax

```text
lab(from <color> L a b[ / A])
```

The parameters are as follows:

- `from <color>`

>   - : The keyword `from` is always included when defining a relative color, followed by a {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} value representing the **origin color**. This is the original color that the relative color is based on. Note that the origin color can be _any_ valid {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} syntax, including another relative color.

Author: Good call; I've made this change on all the color function pages.

- `L`
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `0` and `100`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `0%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case) This value represents the lightness of the output color. Here `100%` is white, `0%` is black, and `50%` is "normal".
- `a`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-125` and `125`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `-100%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value represents the output color's distance along the `a` axis, which defines how green (moving towards `-125`) or red (moving towards `+125`) the color is. Note that these values are signed (allowing both positive and negative values) and theoretically unbounded, meaning that you can set values outside the `±125` (`±100%`) limits. In practice, values cannot exceed `±160`.

Author: Again, no change made; see above comment.

- `b`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-125` and `125`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `-100%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value represents the output color's distance along the `b` axis, which defines how blue (moving towards `-125`) or yellow (moving towards `+125`) the color is. Note that these values are signed (allowing both positive and negative values) and theoretically unbounded, meaning that you can set values outside the `±125` (`±100%`) limits. In practice, values cannot exceed `±160`.

Author: Again, no change made; see previous comments.

- `A` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}} where the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (fully transparent) and `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity), or the keyword `none` explicitly specifies no alpha channel. This represents the alpha channel value of the output color. If the `A` channel value is not explicitly specified, it defaults to the alpha channel value of the origin color. If included, the value is preceded by a slash (`/`).

Author: See previous comments.

#### Defining relative color output channel components

When using relative color syntax inside a `lab()` function, the browser converts the origin color into an equivalent Lab color (if it is not already specified as such). The color is defined as three distinct color channel values — `l` (lightness), `a` (green/red axis), and `b` (blue/yellow axis) — plus an alpha channel value (`alpha`). These channel values are made available inside the function to be used when defining the output color channel values:

- The `l` channel value is resolved to a `<number>` between `0` and `100`.
- The `a` and `b` channels are each resolved to a `<number>` between `-125` and `125`.
- The `alpha` channel is resolved to a `<number>` between `0` and `1`, inclusive.

When defining a relative color, the different channels of the output color can be expressed in several different ways. Below, we'll study some examples to illustrate these.

> It is important to bear in mind that, in the first two examples below, we are using relative color syntax. However, the first one outputs the same color as the origin color and the second one outputs a color not based on the origin color at all. They don't really create relative colors! You'd be unlikely to ever use these in a real codebase, and would probably just use an absolute color value instead. We included these examples as a starting point for learning about relative `lab()` syntax.

Author: Updated

Let's start with an origin color of `hsl(0 100% 50%)` (equivalent to `red`). The following function outputs the same color as the origin color — it uses the origin color's `l`, `a`, and `b` channel values as the output channel values:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) l a b)
```

> > **Note:** As mentioned above, if the output color is using a different color model to the origin color, the origin color is converted to the same model as the output color in the background so that it can be represented in a way that is compatible (i.e. using the same channels). For example, in the above case the {{cssxref("color_value/hsl", "hsl()")}} color `hsl(0 100% 50%)` is converted to `lab(53.24 80.09 67.2)`.

Author: I have dealt with this in a different way

This function uses absolute values for the output color's channel values, outputting a completely different color not based on the origin color:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) 29.692% 44.89% -29.034%)
```

In the above case, the output color is `lab(29.692 56.1125 -36.2925)`.

The following function creates a relative color based on the origin color:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) l -100 b)
```

This example:

- Converts the `hsl()` origin color to an equivalent `lab()` color — `lab(54.29 80.8198 69.8997)`.
- Sets the `l` and `b` channel values for the output color to those of the origin `lab()` equivalent's `L` and `b` channel values — those values are `54.29` and `69.8997`, respectively.
- Sets the output color's `a` channel value to a new value not based on the origin color: `-100`.

The above example's output color is `lab(54.29 -100 69.8997)`.

> In the examples we've seen so far in this section, the alpha channels have not been explicitly specified, for either the origin or output colors. When the output color alpha channel is not specified, it defaults to the same value as the origin color alpha channel. When the origin color alpha channel is not specified (and it is not a relative color), it defaults to `1`. Therefore, the origin and output channel values are `1` for the above examples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** In the examples we've seen so far in this section, the alpha channels have not been explicitly specified, for either the origin or output colors. When the output color alpha channel is not specified, it defaults to the same value as the origin color alpha channel. When the origin color alpha channel is not specified (and it is not a relative color), it defaults to `1`. Therefore, the origin and output channel values are `1` for the above examples.
```

Author: Again, I don't see this as a note - it is part of the main text, not an aside.

Let's look at some examples that specify origin and output alpha channel values. The first one specifies the output alpha channel value as being the same as the origin alpha channel value, whereas the second one specifies a different output alpha channel value, unrelated to the origin alpha channel value.

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50% / 0.8) l a b / alpha)
/* Computed output color: lab(54.29 80.8198 69.8997 / 0.8) */

lab(from hsl(0 100% 50% / 0.8) l a b / 0.5)
/* Computed output color: lab(54.29 80.8198 69.8997 / 0.5) */
```

In the following example, the `hsl()` origin color is again converted to the `lab()` equivalent — `lab(54.29 80.8198 69.8997)`. {{cssxref("calc")}} calculations are applied to the `L`, `a`, `b`, and `A` values, resulting in an output color of `lab(74.29 60.8198 29.8997 / 0.9)`:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) calc(l + 20) calc(a - 20) calc(b - 40) / calc(alpha - 0.1))
```

> > **Note:** Because the origin color channel values are resolved to `<number>` values, you have to add numbers to them when using them in calculations, even in cases where a channel would normally accept `<percentage>` values or other types. Adding a `<number>` to a `<percentage>`, for example, doesn't work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Because the origin color channel values are resolved to `<number>` values, you have to add numbers to them when using them in calculations, even in cases where a channel would normally accept `<percentage>` values or other types. Adding a `<percentage>` to a `<number>`, for example, doesn't work.
```

Author: Change made.

## Syntax

```css
/* Absolute values */

lab(29.2345% 39.3825 20.0664);
lab(52.2345% 40.1645 59.9971);
lab(52.2345% 40.1645 59.9971 / .5);

/* Relative values */

/* Add a semi-transparent alpha channel to green */
lab(from green l a b / 0.5)
/* Create lighter and darker blue variants by setting the output
   colors' l channel values equal to the origin color's l
   channel value plus or minus 10% */
lab(from blue calc(l + 10) a b)

> lab(from blue calc(l - 10) a b)

Author: Yeah, OK, this seems reasonable. I will update all the color function pages to remove the comments and show a wider variety of origin colors in the examples, in these initial syntax section examples.

```

### Values

> Below we have provided descriptions of the allowed values for both absolute and relative colors.

Author: Good call on adding the link here. I've used your suggested wording from the `color()` article, but with the link added, across all function pages.

> **Note:** Usually when percentage values have a numeric equivalent in CSS, `100%` is equal to the number `1`.
> This case is notable where `100%` is equal to the number `100` for the `L` value and `125` for the `a` and `b` values.

> > **Note:** See [Missing color components](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#missing_color_components) for more information on the effect of `none`.

Author: I've moved it as suggested, but I've cut down the text a bit and combined them into a single note. It is all closely-related, after all.

> > **Note:** See [Missing color components](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#missing_color_components) for more information on the effect of `none`.

Author: moved

#### Absolute values

> Functional notation of absolute values: `lab(L a b[ / A])`

Author: Yup, I see what you mean.

OK, to make it more visible, I've put the word "syntax" in the headings, put the syntax itself in a code block, and then just added a line to say that the parameters are explained below.

I've only done this on the `lab()` page for now, so you can let me know what you think. If you like it, I'll make the same change across all the pages.

- `L`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `0` and `100`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `0%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's CIE Lightness. Here the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (black) and the number `100` corresponds to `100%` (white).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `0` and `100`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `0%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's Lightness. Here the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (black) and the number `100` corresponds to `100%` (white).
```
We don't have to reiterate CIE in every definition (I realize this is not a current change.
thinking we should change the intro paragraph to:

```
The **`lab()`** functional notation expresses a given color in the CIE L\*a\*b\* color space.

Lab represents the entire range of colors that humans can see by specifying the color's lightness, 
a red/green axis value, a blue/yellow axis value, and optional alpha transparency.
```

Author: Sure, updated. I've also used your intro suggestion, as I think it sounds much better.

- `a`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-125` and `125`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `-100%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's distance along the `a` axis in the CIELAB colorspace — that is, how green/red the color is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-125` and `125`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `-100%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's distance along the `a` axis, which defines how green or red the color is.
```

Author: I've used your first suggestion; I've also used the same structure for the `b` value description, to keep them consistent.

- `b`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-125` and `125`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `-100%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's distance along the `b` axis in the CIELAB colorspace — that is, how blue/yellow the color is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-125` and `125`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `-100%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's distance along the `b` axis, which defines how blue/yellow the color is.
```

Author: updated

- `A` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}} where the number `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity), or the keyword `none` to explicitly specify no alpha channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}} where the number `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity), or the keyword `none` to explicitly specify no alpha channel. If included, the value is preceded by a slash `/`.
```
i realize that is in the syntax, but we should point it out.

Author: I don't think this is needed. It seems a bit patronizing to me. We do show it clearly in the syntax (which will be even more clear if we agree to the change I proposed above), and in several examples on every page. We'd also have to point it out twice on every color syntax page,

> #### Relative values

Reviewer 2: The comments made in absolute apply here as well. Only including additional feedback in this section

Author: I've made all the changes in both places, on all color function pages. All good!

> Functional notation of relative values: `lab(from color lightness a b[ / alpha])`

Author: Good call. I've changed the actual syntax in the suggested way across all color function pages, although I've changed the wording structure around the syntax using a different approach (see above comment from more details). Again, let me know if you like that approach (currently just done on the `lab()` page), and I'll do it across all pages.

- `from`
  - : The keyword `from` is always included when defining a relative color.
- `color`

>   - : The **origin color**: A {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} value representing the original color that the relative color is based on. Note that this can be _any_ valid {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} syntax, including another relative color.

Author: Again, good call; I like the idea of combining the two. I've mostly used the same wording, but with a slightly different structure. Done across all color function pages.

> - `lightness`

Author: done

  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `0` and `100`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `0%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case) This value represents the lightness of the output color. Here `100%` is white, `0%` is black, and `50%` is "normal".
- `a`
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-125` and `125`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `-100%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value represents the output color's distance along the `a` axis in the CIELAB colorspace — that is, how green/red the color is.
- `b`
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-125` and `125`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `-100%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value represents the output color's distance along the `b` axis in the CIELAB colorspace — that is, how blue/yellow the color is.

> - `alpha` {{optional_inline}}

Author: done

  - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}} where the number `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity), or the keyword `none` to explicitly specify no alpha channel. This represents the alpha channel value of the output color. If the `alpha` channel value is not explicitly specified, it defaults to the alpha channel value of the origin color.

> 

Author: I'm not sure what this comment means; you'll have to have a look to make sure I've captured your intended meaning with the move.

#### Defining relative color output channel components

> When using relative color syntax inside an `lab()` function, the browser first converts the origin color into an equivalent Lab color representation. It then separates that color into three different color channel values — `l` (lightness), `a` (green/red axis), and `b` (blue/yellow axis) — plus an alpha channel value. These channel values are made available inside the function to be used when defining the output color channel values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using relative color syntax inside a `lab()` function, the browser first converts the origin color into an equivalent Lab color value. With the color defined as three distinct color channel values — `L` (lightness), `a` (green/red axis), and `b` (blue/yellow axis) — plus an alpha channel value, the channel values are available to be used in defining the output color channel values:
```
i pronounce it `lab`, which is think is common, but maybe not.
"representation" is correct, but i think "value" is more easily understood.
trying to make it easier to comprehend.

Reviewer 2: EDITED TO HERE

Author: I've mostly used your wording, as I think it is smoother and easier to read, but I have kept the last sentence that you suggested removing. I think it is important to help the reader understand how they can use these/how it is relevant to them.

> When using relative color syntax inside an `lab()` function, the browser first converts the origin color into an equivalent Lab color representation. It then separates that color into three different color channel values — `l` (lightness), `a` (green/red axis), and `b` (blue/yellow axis) — plus an alpha channel value. These channel values are made available inside the function to be used when defining the output color channel values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using relative color syntax to define a CIE L\*a\*b\*  color, the browser first converts the origin color into an equivalent `lab(L a b / A)`  color representation if the origin color is not already defined as such. It then separates that color into three different color channel values — `L` (lightness), `a` (green/red axis), and `b` (blue/yellow axis) — plus an alpha channel value. These channel values are made available inside the function to be used when defining the output color channel values:
```

> - The `l` channel value is resolved to a `<number>` between 0 and 100 that represents the origin color's lightness.

Author: Removing unnecessary verbiage is always good.

BTW, I think the value names for the channel values made available inside the function call should be kept as lower case, to differentiate them somewhat from the output channel values the developer is trying to set. Otherwise, it might get too confusing.

I've checked, and they are case insensitive, but even so, good to differentiate in some way.

- The `a` and `b` channels are resolved to a `<number>` between -125 and 125 which represents the origin color's a and b axis positions.

> - The `alpha` channel is resolved to a `<number>` between 0 and 1 which represents the origin color's alpha value.

Author: Again, I've updated the sentence structures, but not changed the `alpha` to `A`, for the same differentiation reasons as discussed above.

I've also not added "If omitted, it resolves to 1.", for two reasons:

- Here we are not talking about a value that is set, or omitted; we are talking about a value the browser makes available inside the function body to use if you want to. It is the `A` value discussed earlier that is omitted or not.
- The sentence is incorrect — If the `A` channel value is not explicitly specified in a relative color, it defaults to the alpha channel value of the origin color. That is pointed out earlier on, in the `A` channel definition.

> When defining a relative color, the different channels of the output color can be expressed in several different ways. Below, we'll study some examples to illustrate these.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once converted, the origin color channel values are used to define the basis for the output color channel values.

When defining a relative color, the different channels of the output color can be expressed in several different ways. Below, we'll study some examples to illustrate these.
```

Author: this is already said in the last line of the paragraph before the bullets. Also, we need to be a bit careful not to say "are used" — they don't have to be used.

It is important to bear in mind that, in the first two examples below, we are using relative color syntax. However, the first one outputs the same color as the origin color and the second one outputs a color not based on the origin color at all. They don't really create relative colors! You'd be unlikely to ever use these in a real codebase, and would probably just use an absolute color value instead. We included these examples as a starting point for learning about relative color syntax.

> Let's start with an origin color of `hsl(0 100% 50%)` (equivalent to `red`). The following function outputs the same color as the origin color — it uses the origin color's `l`, `a`, and `b` channel values as the output channel values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's start with an origin color of `hsl(0 100% 50%)` (equivalent to `red`). The following function outputs the same color as the origin color — it uses the origin color's case-insensitive `L`, `a`, and `b` channel values as the output channel values:
```

Author: I'm not sure I want to say that here; it is not really helpful to the sentence, and adds a bit of unnecessary noise, imo. If we are going to mention that they are case-insensitive, then maybe we should do that in a note underneath the bullets at the start of the section, along the lines of 

> **Note:** The channel values are case-insensitive. For example, `l` could be written as `L`.

?

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) l a b)
```

> > **Note:** If the output color is using a different color model to the origin color, the origin color is converted to the same model as the output color in the background so that it can be represented in a way that is compatible (i.e. using the same channels).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If the output color is using a different color model to the origin color, the origin color is converted to the same model as the output color in the background so that it can be represented in a way that is compatible (i.e. using the same channels). This is described above. 

The {{cssxref("hsl")}} color `hsl(0 100% 50%)` is converted to `lab(54.291% 64.644% 55.913% / 1)`. As the output uses the same values as the input, the relative color function is the same as the input: `lab(54.291% 64.644% 55.913%)`.
```

If there is a header, link "origin color is converted" and drop the "this is described above."
double check the lab red value please

Author: I like the idea of doing this; I've chosen to put all the info in a single note, with the following structure:

> **Note:** As mentioned above, if the output color is using a different color model to the origin color, the origin color is converted to the same model as the output color in the background so that it can be represented in a way that is compatible (i.e. using the same channels). For example, in this case the {{cssxref("color_value/hsl", "hsl()")}} color `hsl(0 100% 50%)` is converted to `lab(53.24, 80.09, 67.2)`.

The lab value was correct, but I've chosen to represent it in number values rather than percentages because the color channel values are resolved to number values, as mentioned above.

I've made the equivalent change on all the color function pages

This function uses absolute values for the output color's channel values, outputting a completely different color not based on the origin color:

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) 29.692% 44.89% -29.034%)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: The HSL color `hsl(0 100% 50%)` is converted to `lab(54.291% 64.644% 55.913% / 1)`. As the output uses absolute values for the three channels, the output makes no use of the origin color channel value and outputs: `lab(29.692% 44.89% -29.034%)`.

Author: I'm not sure what your point is here. I do explain earlier on in the page that these first two examples are not outputting relative colors as such, and you would probably not do this in a real project, but we are including these to illustrate the different values you can use for the output color channels. We discussed this in previous comments.

> The following function uses two of the origin color channel values for the output color channel value, but uses a new value for the other output channel value, creating a relative color based on the origin color:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we saw, including `l`, `a`, or `b` as input values means "use the value from the origin color for this channel" while including a number replaces the channel value with that number, let's combine the two. The following function uses two of the origin color channel values for the output color channel value, but uses a new value for the other output channel value, creating a relative color based on the origin color:
```

Author: This feels really wordy and repetitive. To make it clearer what is going on in these sentences, I have updated these sentences on each color function page to say exactly which channel values from the origin color are being used, and which ones are new. The fact that the previous two techniques are combined is implied and doesn't need to be spelled out?

See what you think of the new wording, anyway.

```css
lab(from hsl(0 100% 50%) l -100 b)
```

> The following function uses the origin color's channel values inside {{cssxref("calc")}} functions to calculate new channel values for the output color:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, `hsl(0 100% 50%)` was converted to `lab(54.291% 64.644% 55.913%)`, the `b` channel was replaced with `-100`, resulting in `lab(54.291% -100 55.913%)`

The following function uses the origin color's channel values inside {{cssxref("calc")}} functions to calculate new channel values for the output color with the value for each channel being relative to the origin color's value for that channel:
```

is that correct?

Reviewer 2: Not sure if we want to convert to all numbers or all percentages?

Author: Again, this feels repetitive and too much wordiness. We've already explained twice that the color is converted, and shown one complete example above. If the reader wants to work out the equivalent color, they can do it themselves?

I do however agree that it would be good to make it clearer that these values are relative to the origin color channel values. To that end, I've updated the sentence to

> The following example uses {{cssxref("calc")}} functions to calculate new channel values for the output color that are relative to the origin color channel values:

{{EmbedLiveSample('Adjusting_opacity_with_lab')}}

### Using relative colors with lab()

The below example styles three {{htmlelement("div")}} elements with different background colors. The middle one is given the unmodified `--base-color`, while the left and right ones are given lightened and darkened variants of that `--base-color`.

> These variants are defined using relative colors — the `--base-color` [custom property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*) is passed into a `lab()` function, and the output colors have their lightness channel modified to achieve the desired effect via a `calc()` function. The lightened color has 15% added to the lightness channel, and the darkened color has 15% subtracted from the lightness channel.

Reviewer 2: here you say `15%` and below `15` is used. As 100% is 125, how does this work?

Author: I'm varying the `l` channel, which ranges from 0-100, therefore 15% would be specified using 15 in the calculation (the origin channel value resolves to a number, and you need to add a number to it to change the value; you can't add a percentage to a number, hence this being how the spec was written)

It is the `a` and `b` channels that range from -125 to 125

Reviewer 2: got it!
